hi it's madness on you again and in this
short video I'm going to show you how to
become an instant expert now that's a
grand old statement
I'll admit so let me tell you why I
think it's true and better still why
don't I show you what I think is true
back in the 1980s people used to bet in
smoke-filled rooms with blacked-out
windows and they're betting decisions
would be made from a single page in the
daily newspaper or bits and pieces of
information about each horses recent
form on the walls and today more than
thirty years later nothing much has
changed I mean sure the windows are
clear now and the smoking ban has kicked
in but in terms of available information
your local coral or Hills is as much of
an information desert as it ever was
in fact the racing post still only
publishes the last three runs exactly as
it did three decades ago and that's
hardly surprising after all betting
shops only have a limited amount of wall
space but they don't exactly want
winning punters do they racetracks are
no better most have a massive
information all squashed together but
actually tell us again next to nothing
now with the advent of the internet
things have moved on there are some very
clever websites out there if you've got
a doctorate in brain surgery and a
lifetime to learn how to use them why
does it have to be so difficult the
answer happily is that it doesn't let me
introduce you to the instant expert a
snazzy name for a brilliantly simple
concept the instant expert is just one
of a multitude of value trapping winner
finding features on the gee-gees race
cars it can be found by clicking on any
individual race and then selecting the
instant expert tab now in this case I've
taken the first race of dishes glorious
Goodwood meeting the 155 on Tuesday the
29th that's a mile and a quarter
handicap and it's got 18 runners
declared so on the face of it it's quite
a difficult handicap to weigh up but not
with the instant expert the instant
expert is split into six do
areas they cover going class course
distance field size and official rating
the report can be sorted by win or place
depending on how you're betting and all
of the columns are sortable to suit your
tastes
you're also notice at the top of the
instant expert there are drop-down boxes
for going class distance and field size
these can be amended to the users tastes
so say for instance the going is
officially good but we suspect it might
dry out too good to firm we can select a
range of goings from these dropdowns and
the content below will reflect that
going range we could also say show us
all races from class 1 to class 2 and
that would be reflected as well finally
in this case we might want to change the
distance range to be from one mile one
furlong to one mile two furlongs to
reflect the fact that it's just shy of
one and a quarter miles so now we're
sorted on by win good - phone - good
class - a nine furlongs - 10 furlongs
and 16 bus field size if we sort on race
distance we can see those runners with
the best record at roughly today's
distance in this case we've got one two
three four we have five runners with a
33% or better win rate at the distance
if we look across to our left we can see
undergoing that Cameron Highland has the
best record of going allied to distance
and he's also back we can see on the
right hand side he's also back to his
last winning rating so T stands for
today's official rating L stands for
last winning official rating and D is
the difference now he has run once at
the track before and was
didn't win and has won twice in the
class before without winning as well so
they'd be question marks but what we can
do is we can click the place radio
button and we can see what difference
that makes the camera in Highland now we
can see that one of the runs in this
grade was a placed effort although we
still have that knock over his course
fun still at around 14 to 1
Cameron Highland might be an interesting
contender after all we know that he's
well suited to today's conditions in a
couple of other points to consider if we
look on the main card we can see a green
14 and 30 underneath the trainer's name
for Cameron Highland this tells us that
the trainer has is basically informed in
the last 14 days and in the last 30 days
and we can look at his full form and
investigate that single run at Goodwood
so if we select full form filter choose
Cameron Highlanders rock down and then
if we click course from the filters we
will see that he ran once here in a
listed race in other words in a better
race and he finished 4th of 5 so not a
great finishing position but he was out
he was beaten less than three lengths
there operating of a hundred and eight
that was on the soft side of good as
well which may not have suited him if we
look at his form on the going and at the
distance we can see he's only run once
on this going in distance and that was a
win at Epsom which is a similarly
undulating course
in a small field but he it was a very
comfortable win he won by four and a
half lengths off a rating of one hundred
and six he has won again a couple of
times since then he won at Epsom again
off a hundred and five and then he
followed up in a listed race at Windsor
on softer ground or also off 105 so we
we can actually see from this table
snaps
that Cameron Hyland is dropping in class
from listed grade where he's run the
last few times and he's actually
dropping in trip as well so he was
running over a mile and a half enlisted
class and now he's dropping back to a
mile and a quarter in class too and I
think he's quite an interesting runner
the instant expert backs that up happily
he's not the only interesting runner in
the race but he certainly has plenty to
recommend him this information is
available for all races and not just
today's racing but also the the five-day
future viewers well so it really helps
you get a head start on the betting and
take advantage of the early prices as I
say it's um it's just one of many tools
that we use here at GG's to find value
winners information that's not available
anywhere else and this was the instant
expert so go ahead sign up for your free
trial below and start putting GG's goal
to work for you today